doc/source/using_cae.rst, before:

How to run using cae
********************

The plugins commands are available from within CAE as: 

- A toolbar, activate by 
  :menuselection:`Plug-ins --> Toolboxes --> Rollover`
- Menu items, in 
  :menuselection:`Plug-ins --> Rollover`


Creating the rail 
==================
A basic rail is created with the command 
:command:`Create rail...` |rail_icon|, opening the following form

|rail_form|

The following table describes the options

================ =======================================================
Parameter        Description
================ =======================================================
rail sketch file The path to the rail sketch, see :ref:`sketchcreation` 
                 and :ref:`datafolder`
rail cae name    Name of the Abaqus Model Database (.cae) file to be 
                 created
rail length      The extrusion length of the rail
mesh size        The fine and coarse mesh size, separated by a comma
refine p1        The first point (x,y) defining the refine rectangle
refine p2        The second point defining the refine rectangle
sym_sign         If symmetry about the yz-plane is used, specify the 
                 x-direction (-1 or +1), pointing away from the 
                 material. Set to 0 if symmetry is not used.
================ =======================================================

This will create a rail part, which could look like the following

|rail_basic|

The red region marks the refine rectangle. This rectangle is used to 
create a cell by partitioning the rail by extrusion in the z-direction. 
The generated cell serves two purposes. 
Firstly, it controls where the fine mesh is used. 
Secondly, the external faces belonging to the cell, 
except the end faces with normal in the z-direction, 
make up the contact region.

The rail can now be modified to suit the needs of the simulation, e.g.
changing the geometry, mesh and material definitions. The requirements
on the rail are given in :ref:`rail_modifications`. Note that the tool
to make a TET mesh periodic is available as a plugin:

:menuselection:`Plug-ins --> Rollover --> Tools --> Periodize mesh` 
or on the Rollover toolbar: |periodize_icon|


Creating a wheel
================
A wheel is created with the command 
:command:`Create wheel...` |wheel_icon|, opening the following form

|wheel_form|

The following table describes the options

=================== ====================================================
Parameter           Description
=================== ====================================================
wheel sketch file   The path to the wheel sketch, see 
                    :ref:`sketchcreation` and :ref:`datafolder`
wheel save folder   Name of the folder in which the wheel super element
                    files should be saved. 
mesh                The fine and coarse mesh size, separated by comma
use quadratic       0 for linear elements, 1 for quadratic elements
angle interval      The angular interval in which to retain wheel nodes. 
                    Measured in radians around x, relative the negative 
                    y-axis.
x contact interval  The x-interval in which to retain wheel nodes. 
partition line y    The y-coordinate (in the sketch, typically negative)
                    outside which the fine mesh should be applied. 
=================== ====================================================

Upon pressing OK, a wheel substructure is calculated. This can take
considerable time, especially for fine meshes. It is therefore 
recommended to test first with a bit coarser mesh. It is particularly 
the fine mesh size that determines the size, as this is used to 
determine the angular interval to mesh the wheel. For the default 
settings with a very coarse mesh, the full wheel mesh looks like

|wheel_full|

Note, however, that it is currently not supported to manually edit the
wheel mesh. The motivation is that once the wheel only needs to be 
calculated once, and it is therefore not required to optimize the mesh.


Creating the simulation
=======================

A simulation is created with the command 
:command:`Create simulation...` |rollover_icon|, 
opening the following form

|rollover_form|

This form has multiple tabs, which are described by the following tables

=================== ====================================================
Rail                
=================== ====================================================
.cae file           The path to the rail Abaqus Model Database file 
                    (.cae)
shadow extents      Name of the folder in which the wheel super element
                    files should be saved. 
use ref pt.         
=================== ====================================================

=================== ====================================================
Wheel
=================== ====================================================
folder              The folder containing the wheel super element files
translation         The vector (x,y,z) which the wheel should be 
                    translated on import. Initially, the wheel center is
                    at (0,0,0). The rail sketch determines the (x,y) 
                    position of the rail, and it starts at z=0 and ends
                    at z=L, where L is the rail length specified above. 
use ref pt.         If rail extension should be used, a reference point
                    is required. Otherwise, fewer constraints are added
                    creating a slightly more efficient simulation. Set 
                    to 0 for no reference point, 1 otherwise. 
=================== ====================================================

=================== ====================================================
Contact
=================== ====================================================
friction coeff      The friction coefficient for the contact
contact stiff       The constant contact stiffness used (penalty method)
=================== ====================================================

=================== ====================================================
Loading
=================== ====================================================
initial depression  How much to move the wheel control point in 
                    negative y-direction using displacement control, 
                    before switching to load control, in the first cycle
time inbetween      Which step time to use for the initial steps and the
                    steps when mapping back the wheel in each cycle. 
inbetween max incr  Maximum number of increments for the above steps.
rolling length      The rolling length, should match the rail length.
rolling radius      The rolling radius used to convert slip to rotation
                    speed.
max increments      Maximum number of increments for one rolling step
min increments      Minimum number of increments for one rolling step
num cycles          Number of cycles to simulate. 
                    Please read :ref:`addcycles`
cycles spec         The cycles for which a change in loading conditions 
                    are specified.
                    Given as csv, matching "cycles spec"
wheel load          The force applied to the wheel control point in 
                    negative y-direction.
                    Given as csv, matching "cycles spec"
speed               The linear speed for the wheel control point. 
                    Given as csv, matching "cycles spec"
slip                The wheel slip :math:`s`, such that 
                    :math:`\dot{\theta}_x = (1+s)\frac{v}{R}` where 
                    :math:`\dot{\theta}_x` is the wheel control point 
                    rotation speed around x, 
                    :math:`v` is the speed and :math:`R` is the 
                    "rolling radius"
                    Given as csv, matching "cycles spec"
rail ext            The rail extension at the end of the rolling cycle, 
                    varying linearly to this value. 
                    Given as csv, matching "cycles spec"
=================== ====================================================

=================== ====================================================
Output
=================== ====================================================
name                The name of the field output request to be created
set                 The rail set name to take field output data for. 
                    Additionally, the names 
                    "FULL_MODEL" (both rail and wheel) and 
                    "WHEEL_RP" (wheel reference point) are supported. 
variables           Which variables to output, comma separated, to find
                    the correct variables, see the string created when 
                    setting up a field output request from within CAE.
frequency           How often (in terms of increments) to save data
cycle               How often (in terms of cycles) to save data. If e.g.
                    25 if specified, output will occur at cycle 
                    1, 26, 51, and so on.
=================== ====================================================

The form can be run with the default settings, except changing the paths 
to the generated :file:`rail_example.cae` 
and folder :file:`wheel_example`, 
or moving them to the default path specified. 
This action will create the following mesh, where the wheel 
is modeled using membrane elements.

The default settings do not add any field output. In that case, 
Abaqus' default field outputs will be used. 
Note that this choice can result in very a large
output database file (.odb) if many cycles are simulated. 

|rollover_mesh|


Running the simulation from CAE
===============================
The standard user subroutine is added to the job, allowing to run the
created job directly inside CAE. 
If running via the command line from a different folder 
(e.g. a computational cluster), please see 
:ref:`runsim` to ensure all required files are available. 
Using the command line is required if the input file was 
modified according to :ref:`addcycles`.

Result
======
After successfully run with the default settings, the von Mises stresses
in the rail at the middle of the rolling cycle become as shown here:
|rollover_result|

Note that the simulation time is rather long for this example, 
because the mesh on the rail has not been optimized. 
It is usually beneficial to use hexagonal elements.

.. |rail_icon| image:: /img/rail_icon.png

.. |rail_form| image:: /img/rail_form.png

.. |rail_basic| image:: /img/rail_basic.png

.. |periodize_icon| image:: /img/periodize_icon.png

.. |wheel_icon| image:: /img/wheel_icon.png

.. |wheel_form| image:: /img/wheel_form.png

.. |wheel_full| image:: /img/wheel_full.png

.. |rollover_icon| image:: /img/rollover_icon.png

.. |rollover_form| image:: /img/rollover_form.png

.. |rollover_mesh| image:: /img/rollover_mesh.png

.. |rollover_result| image:: /img/example_result.png

Commit message:

Correct ref point and stiffness description

doc/source/using_cae.rst, after:

How to run using cae
********************

The plugins commands are available from within CAE as: 

- A toolbar, activate by 
  :menuselection:`Plug-ins --> Toolboxes --> Rollover`
- Menu items, in 
  :menuselection:`Plug-ins --> Rollover`


Creating the rail 
==================
A basic rail is created with the command 
:command:`Create rail...` |rail_icon|, opening the following form

|rail_form|

The following table describes the options

================ =======================================================
Parameter        Description
================ =======================================================
rail sketch file The path to the rail sketch, see :ref:`sketchcreation` 
                 and :ref:`datafolder`
rail cae name    Name of the Abaqus Model Database (.cae) file to be 
                 created
rail length      The extrusion length of the rail
mesh size        The fine and coarse mesh size, separated by a comma
refine p1        The first point (x,y) defining the refine rectangle
refine p2        The second point defining the refine rectangle
sym_sign         If symmetry about the yz-plane is used, specify the 
                 x-direction (-1 or +1), pointing away from the 
                 material. Set to 0 if symmetry is not used.
================ =======================================================

This will create a rail part, which could look like the following

|rail_basic|

The red region marks the refine rectangle. This rectangle is used to 
create a cell by partitioning the rail by extrusion in the z-direction. 
The generated cell serves two purposes. 
Firstly, it controls where the fine mesh is used. 
Secondly, the external faces belonging to the cell, 
except the end faces with normal in the z-direction, 
make up the contact region.

The rail can now be modified to suit the needs of the simulation, e.g.
changing the geometry, mesh and material definitions. The requirements
on the rail are given in :ref:`rail_modifications`. Note that the tool
to make a TET mesh periodic is available as a plugin:

:menuselection:`Plug-ins --> Rollover --> Tools --> Periodize mesh` 
or on the Rollover toolbar: |periodize_icon|


Creating a wheel
================
A wheel is created with the command 
:command:`Create wheel...` |wheel_icon|, opening the following form

|wheel_form|

The following table describes the options

=================== ====================================================
Parameter           Description
=================== ====================================================
wheel sketch file   The path to the wheel sketch, see 
                    :ref:`sketchcreation` and :ref:`datafolder`
wheel save folder   Name of the folder in which the wheel super element
                    files should be saved. 
mesh                The fine and coarse mesh size, separated by comma
use quadratic       0 for linear elements, 1 for quadratic elements
angle interval      The angular interval in which to retain wheel nodes. 
                    Measured in radians around x, relative the negative 
                    y-axis.
x contact interval  The x-interval in which to retain wheel nodes. 
partition line y    The y-coordinate (in the sketch, typically negative)
                    outside which the fine mesh should be applied. 
=================== ====================================================

Upon pressing OK, a wheel substructure is calculated. This can take
considerable time, especially for fine meshes. It is therefore 
recommended to test first with a bit coarser mesh. It is particularly 
the fine mesh size that determines the size, as this is used to 
determine the angular interval to mesh the wheel. For the default 
settings with a very coarse mesh, the full wheel mesh looks like

|wheel_full|

Note, however, that it is currently not supported to manually edit the
wheel mesh. The motivation is that once the wheel only needs to be 
calculated once, and it is therefore not required to optimize the mesh.


Creating the simulation
=======================

A simulation is created with the command 
:command:`Create simulation...` |rollover_icon|, 
opening the following form

|rollover_form|

This form has multiple tabs, which are described by the following tables

=================== ====================================================
Rail                
=================== ====================================================
.cae file           The path to the rail Abaqus Model Database file 
                    (.cae)
shadow extents      Name of the folder in which the wheel super element
                    files should be saved. 
use ref pt.         If rail extension should be used, a reference point
                    is required. Otherwise, fewer constraints are added
                    creating a slightly more efficient simulation. Set 
                    to 0 for no reference point, 1 otherwise.
=================== ====================================================

=================== ====================================================
Wheel
=================== ====================================================
folder              The folder containing the wheel super element files
translation         The vector (x,y,z) which the wheel should be 
                    translated on import. Initially, the wheel center is
                    at (0,0,0). The rail sketch determines the (x,y) 
                    position of the rail, and it starts at z=0 and ends
                    at z=L, where L is the rail length specified above. 
stiffness           Young's modulus for the wheel
=================== ====================================================

=================== ====================================================
Contact
=================== ====================================================
friction coeff      The friction coefficient for the contact
contact stiff       The constant contact stiffness used (penalty method)
=================== ====================================================

=================== ====================================================
Loading
=================== ====================================================
initial depression  How much to move the wheel control point in 
                    negative y-direction using displacement control, 
                    before switching to load control, in the first cycle
time inbetween      Which step time to use for the initial steps and the
                    steps when mapping back the wheel in each cycle. 
inbetween max incr  Maximum number of increments for the above steps.
rolling length      The rolling length, should match the rail length.
rolling radius      The rolling radius used to convert slip to rotation
                    speed.
max increments      Maximum number of increments for one rolling step
min increments      Minimum number of increments for one rolling step
num cycles          Number of cycles to simulate. 
                    Please read :ref:`addcycles`
cycles spec         The cycles for which a change in loading conditions 
                    are specified.
                    Given as csv, matching "cycles spec"
wheel load          The force applied to the wheel control point in 
                    negative y-direction.
                    Given as csv, matching "cycles spec"
speed               The linear speed for the wheel control point. 
                    Given as csv, matching "cycles spec"
slip                The wheel slip :math:`s`, such that 
                    :math:`\dot{\theta}_x = (1+s)\frac{v}{R}` where 
                    :math:`\dot{\theta}_x` is the wheel control point 
                    rotation speed around x, 
                    :math:`v` is the speed and :math:`R` is the 
                    "rolling radius"
                    Given as csv, matching "cycles spec"
rail ext            The rail extension at the end of the rolling cycle, 
                    varying linearly to this value. 
                    Given as csv, matching "cycles spec"
=================== ====================================================

=================== ====================================================
Output
=================== ====================================================
name                The name of the field output request to be created
set                 The rail set name to take field output data for. 
                    Additionally, the names 
                    "FULL_MODEL" (both rail and wheel) and 
                    "WHEEL_RP" (wheel reference point) are supported. 
variables           Which variables to output, comma separated, to find
                    the correct variables, see the string created when 
                    setting up a field output request from within CAE.
frequency           How often (in terms of increments) to save data
cycle               How often (in terms of cycles) to save data. If e.g.
                    25 if specified, output will occur at cycle 
                    1, 26, 51, and so on.
=================== ====================================================

The form can be run with the default settings, except changing the paths 
to the generated :file:`rail_example.cae` 
and folder :file:`wheel_example`, 
or moving them to the default path specified. 
This action will create the following mesh, where the wheel 
is modeled using membrane elements.

The default settings do not add any field output. In that case, 
Abaqus' default field outputs will be used. 
Note that this choice can result in very a large
output database file (.odb) if many cycles are simulated. 

|rollover_mesh|


Running the simulation from CAE
===============================
The standard user subroutine is added to the job, allowing to run the
created job directly inside CAE. 
If running via the command line from a different folder 
(e.g. a computational cluster), please see 
:ref:`runsim` to ensure all required files are available. 
Using the command line is required if the input file was 
modified according to :ref:`addcycles`.

Result
======
After successfully run with the default settings, the von Mises stresses
in the rail at the middle of the rolling cycle become as shown here:
|rollover_result|

Note that the simulation time is rather long for this example, 
because the mesh on the rail has not been optimized. 
It is usually beneficial to use hexagonal elements.

.. |rail_icon| image:: /img/rail_icon.png

.. |rail_form| image:: /img/rail_form.png

.. |rail_basic| image:: /img/rail_basic.png

.. |periodize_icon| image:: /img/periodize_icon.png

.. |wheel_icon| image:: /img/wheel_icon.png

.. |wheel_form| image:: /img/wheel_form.png

.. |wheel_full| image:: /img/wheel_full.png

.. |rollover_icon| image:: /img/rollover_icon.png

.. |rollover_form| image:: /img/rollover_form.png

.. |rollover_mesh| image:: /img/rollover_mesh.png

.. |rollover_result| image:: /img/example_result.png
